content/opportunity/masters-students/index.md, before:

---
title: We are looking for Masters Students!
authors:
- michaelkrauthammer
- zsoltbalazs
tags: 
- Data Science
- Bioinformatics
- Opportunities
categories:
- Data Science
- Bioinformatics

# list the projects you want masters students for here, if there are pages for them
# projects: []
---

We are currently looking for Master's students in the field of **Bioinformatics** for the topic of

### Epigenetic footprints in cell-free DNA sequencing data

Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) carries epigenetic information of distal tissues and organs. Different characteristics of cfDNA are increasingly being used in the diagnostics of genetic diseases and the monitoring of cancer. We discern epigenetic signatures such as transcription binding site accessibility and DNase hypersensitivity sites from cfDNA-sequencing data and infer the contribution of different cell / tissue types to cfDNA. In doing so, we aim to detect and quantify the cancer-derived cfDNA and detect inflammation in various tissue types.

The student should have basic experience with Unix systems, proficiency in at least one scripting language (e.g. Python or R), a strong understanding of biostatistics and a basic understanding of machine learning algorithms.
Depending on the experience and interest of the student we offer projects focusing on either:
- Feature extraction from cfDNA-sequencing data by singnal processing
or
- Representation learning from high-dimensional cfDNA-sequencing data

You can apply by sending a CV to this <a href="#" onclick="u='michael.krauthammer'; d='uzh.ch'; prompt('Copy address to clipboard',u+'@'+d); return false">e-mail</a> along with a short description of the student's motivation to join our lab.

For CBB master students at ETH, please check [this form](https://ethz.ch/content/dam/ethz/special-interest/study-programme-websites/master-cbb-dam/documents/2021_CBB%20Master%20Thesis%20UBas_UZH%20Registration%20Form.pdf).

For other students at ETH, it is also easier - you need be enrolled at UZH as a mobility student, see [here](https://www.uzh.ch/cmsssl/en/studies/application/chmobilityin.html). If you have any questions regarding ETH regulation, please contact Student Exchange Office: Dr. Francesca Broggi, francesca.broggi@akd.ethz.ch, Tel +41 44 632 43 46.

### References
[1](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S009286741501569X) Snyder, M. W. et al. Cell 164, 57–68 (2016)

[2](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-23445-w) Peneder, P et al. Nat Comms 12, 3230 (2021) 

[3](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.abm4358) Rao, S. et al. Sci Adv 8, 34 (2022)


We are currently looking for Master's students in **Clinical Data Science** for the following topics

### Information extraction from German Radiology Report

Large, labeled datasets have driven deep learning methods to achieve expert-level performance on a variety of medical imaging tasks. There are some English radiology report datasets that have been labeled automatically to detect in presence of 14 observations by capturing uncertainties inherent in radiograph interpretation.
We would like to investigate different approaches such as the information extraction paradigm to label radiology reports in another language such as German. We plan to explore the possibility of incorporating domain knowledge such as http://radlex.org/ and evaluate the effectiveness of it in the proposed framework.
Since a radiology report comes with radiology images, we also would like to investigate the multi-modal approaches in our study.

Applications can be done by sending a CV to this <a href="#" onclick="u='michael.krauthammer'; d='uzh.ch'; prompt('Copy address to clipboard',u+'@'+d); return false">e-mail</a> along with a short description of the student's motivation to join our lab.

Commit message:

rephrased some sentences in the call for master students

content/opportunity/masters-students/index.md, after:

---
title: We are looking for Masters Students!
authors:
- michaelkrauthammer
- zsoltbalazs
tags: 
- Data Science
- Bioinformatics
- Opportunities
categories:
- Data Science
- Bioinformatics

# list the projects you want masters students for here, if there are pages for them
# projects: []
---

We are currently looking for Master's students in the field of **Bioinformatics** for the topic of

### Epigenetic footprints in cell-free DNA sequencing data

Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) carries epigenetic information of distal tissues and organs. Different characteristics of cfDNA are increasingly being used in the diagnostics of genetic diseases and the monitoring of cancer. We discern epigenetic signatures such as transcription binding site accessibility and DNase hypersensitivity sites from cfDNA-sequencing data and infer the contribution of different cell / tissue types to cfDNA. In doing so, we aim to detect and quantify the cancer-derived cfDNA and detect inflammation in various tissue types.

We are looking for students who have some experience with Unix systems, proficiency in at least one scripting language (e.g. Python or R), a strong understanding of biostatistics and a basic understanding of machine learning algorithms.
Depending on the experience and interest of the student we offer projects focusing on either:
- Feature extraction from cfDNA-sequencing data by singnal processing
or
- Representation learning from high-dimensional cfDNA-sequencing data

You can apply by sending a CV to this <a href="#" onclick="u='michael.krauthammer'; d='uzh.ch'; prompt('Copy address to clipboard',u+'@'+d); return false">e-mail</a> along with a short description of your motivation to join our lab.

For CBB master students at ETH, please check [this form](https://ethz.ch/content/dam/ethz/special-interest/study-programme-websites/master-cbb-dam/documents/2021_CBB%20Master%20Thesis%20UBas_UZH%20Registration%20Form.pdf).

For other students at ETH, it is also easy - you need be enrolled at UZH as a mobility student, see [here](https://www.uzh.ch/cmsssl/en/studies/application/chmobilityin.html). If you have any questions regarding ETH regulation, please contact Student Exchange Office: Dr. Francesca Broggi, francesca.broggi@akd.ethz.ch, Tel +41 44 632 43 46.

### References
[1](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S009286741501569X) Snyder, M. W. et al. Cell 164, 57–68 (2016)

[2](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-23445-w) Peneder, P et al. Nat Comms 12, 3230 (2021) 

[3](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.abm4358) Rao, S. et al. Sci Adv 8, 34 (2022)


We are currently looking for Master's students in **Clinical Data Science** for the following topics

### Information extraction from German Radiology Report

Large, labeled datasets have driven deep learning methods to achieve expert-level performance on a variety of medical imaging tasks. There are some English radiology report datasets that have been labeled automatically to detect in presence of 14 observations by capturing uncertainties inherent in radiograph interpretation.
We would like to investigate different approaches such as the information extraction paradigm to label radiology reports in another language such as German. We plan to explore the possibility of incorporating domain knowledge such as http://radlex.org/ and evaluate the effectiveness of it in the proposed framework.
Since a radiology report comes with radiology images, we also would like to investigate the multi-modal approaches in our study.

Applications can be done by sending a CV to this <a href="#" onclick="u='michael.krauthammer'; d='uzh.ch'; prompt('Copy address to clipboard',u+'@'+d); return false">e-mail</a> along with a short description of the student's motivation to join our lab.
