content/opportunity/postdoc_position/index.md, before:

---
title: PostDoc in Health AI
authors:
- ahmedallam
- michaelkrauthammer
tags: 
- Data Science
- Bioinformatics
- Opportunities
categories:
- Data Science
- Bioinformatics

# list the projects you want masters students for here, if there are pages for them
# projects: []
---

### Summary

The University of Zurich together with the University Hospital of Zurich are embarking on a concerted effort to develop informatics programs to advance biomedical research and healthcare using cutting edge computational approaches. As part of these efforts, the Chair of Medical Informatics (https://krauthammerlab.ch) investigates topics in clinical data science and translational bioinformatics, such as knowledge discovery from Big Data sources (Electronic Medical Records, health registries) as well as the analysis of human Omics data. 

We are currently looking for a motivated PostDoc in Health AI who will work at the intersection of computation, biology and medicine. Particularly, the candidate will support our ongoing work in applying AI to the space of genetic engineering, including the prediction of base editor outcomes, the optimization of base editors and the optimal use of base editors in complex genetic diseases. This work is part of the University Research Priority Program (URPP) «Human Reproduction Reloaded» (see https://www.humanreproduction.uzh.ch/en/Research-Areas/CRISPR-Technology-in-Human-Reproduction.html ). 

The PostDoc will be involved in other ongoing lab activities (particularly the supervision of junior lab members and some teaching activities) and will be integral part of the URPP research community. We offer an interdisciplinary research environment, the possibility to direct your own research, access to state-of-the-art computational resources infrastructure (further details are listed below) and a formidable place to grow academically. 

### Qualifications

<ul>
  <li>PhD degree in computer science (focused on machine learning), optimization, statistics, applied math, computational biology or closely related discipline.</li>
  <li>Strong publication record with at least one first-author paper in top-tier conferences (such as NeurIPS, ICML, ACL, CVPR, AISTATS, AAAI, ICLR, etc.)</li>
  <li>Proficient in Python and the scientific computing stack (SciPy, Numpy, Scikit- learn, pandas)</li>
  <li>Proficient in one of the deep learning frameworks (PyTorch, Tensorflow)</li>
  <li>Prior health- and biology- related computational work is a plus</li>
</ul>

### What we offer

<ul>
  <li>Access to state-of-the-art infrastructure (computational resources), clinical datasets and medical expertise domain-knowledge (excellent medical doctors and research scientists)</li>
  <li>Ability to make a real and tangible impact in healthcare research</li>
  <li>Solve real-world problems and improve hospital-related processes and workflow</li>
  <li>Stimulating research environment and a place to grow academically and professionally</li>
  <li>Outstanding working conditions at the University of Zurich (more details at https://www.staff.uzh.ch/de/personal/willkommenspaket.html).</li>
</ul>

### Application

Applicants should submit their application to  Claudia.Stenger@usz.ch

Commit message:

Add new position & remove old

content/opportunity/postdoc_position/index.md, after:

---
title: PostDoc in Medical Data Science
authors:
- michaelkrauthammer
tags: 
- Data Science
- Bioinformatics
- Opportunities
categories:
- Data Science
- Bioinformatics

# list the projects you want masters students for here, if there are pages for them
# projects: []
---

### Summary

The University of Zurich together with the University Hospital of Zurich are embarking on a concerted effort to develop informatics programs to advance biomedical research and healthcare using cutting edge computational approaches. As part of these efforts, the Chair of Medical Informatics (https://krauthammerlab.ch) investigates topics in clinical data science and translational bioinformatics, such as knowledge discovery from Big Data sources (Electronic Medical Records, health registries) as well as the analysis of human Omics data. 

We are currently looking for a motivated PostDoc in Medical Data Science. The position is jointly funded by the Experimental Oncology Lab (Prof. Andreas Wicki) and is focused on clinical data science, particularly the development of advanced analytical methods (optimization, forecasting and counterfactual reasoning) for analyzing hospital data, including the analysis of historic cancer data with respect to treatment outcome and side effects. 

The PostDoc will be involved in other ongoing lab activities (particularly the supervision of junior lab members and some teaching activities). We offer an interdisciplinary research environment, the possibility to direct your own research, access to state-of-the-art computational resources infrastructure (further details are listed below) and a formidable place to grow academically. 

### Qualifications

<ul>
  <li>PhD degree in computer science (focused on machine learning), optimization, statistics, applied math, computational biology or closely related discipline.</li>
  <li>Strong publication record with at least one first-author paper in top-tier conferences (such as NeurIPS, ICML, ACL, CVPR, AISTATS, AAAI, ICLR, etc.)</li>
  <li>Proficient in Python and the scientific computing stack (SciPy, Numpy, Scikit- learn, pandas)</li>
  <li>Proficient in one of the deep learning frameworks (PyTorch, Tensorflow)</li>
  <li>Prior health- and biology- related computational work is a plus</li>
</ul>

### What we offer

<ul>
  <li>Access to state-of-the-art infrastructure (computational resources), clinical datasets and medical expertise domain-knowledge (excellent medical doctors and research scientists)</li>
  <li>Ability to make a real and tangible impact in healthcare research</li>
  <li>Solve real-world problems and improve hospital-related processes and workflow</li>
  <li>Stimulating research environment and a place to grow academically and professionally</li>
  <li>Outstanding working conditions at the University of Zurich (more details at https://www.staff.uzh.ch/de/personal/willkommenspaket.html).</li>
</ul>

### Application

Applicants should submit their application to  Claudia.Stenger@usz.ch
